Advanced Preparation: R for data science workshop
================
John Little
2020-08-26

<!-- 0_prepare.md is generated from 0_prepare.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

Note: Registration links can be found near the bottom of this
[workshop’s description
page](https://rfun.library.duke.edu/portfolio/r_flipped/).

## The letter….

> This email is sent a week in advance of the flipped workshop.

## Flipped classroom preparation - Rfun: Introduction to R for data science Workshop

You are receiving this note because you are registered for Part 1 -
getting started, EDA, data wrangling, \<<insert date/time>\>. This is a
flipped classroom model which means you will come prepared to ask
questions based on materials shared in advance.

During the workshop, there will be ample time for your questions. We
will focus on how to use RStudio as a data manipulation tool. We will
not cover statistical modeling or research design, i.e. areas of
specific subject expertise. Email me separately about my consultation
services. You may leave the interactive (Zoom) session at any time.

> Brief pre-workshop survey. Please complete this now.
> \<<insert link to pre-workshop survey>\>

**Do**

1.  In advance: Installation ([interactive
    tutorial](https://tutorials.shinyapps.io/00-setup/)): R, RStudio,
    Tidyverse
2.  In advance: Part 1 materials. video
    [Part 1a](https://warpwire.duke.edu/w/pfYDAA/) \[25 min.\] and
    [Part 1b](https://warpwire.duke.edu/w/6_YDAA/) \[10 min.\]
    (optionally\!\! More background, detail, in-depth, and part 2
    videos)
3.  In workshop: [Exercises (and optionally, in
    advance)](https://github.com/libjohn/rfun_flipped#exercises-part-1)
    and Follow-up

I’m looking forward to seeing you in the workshop. Please contact me if
you have questions.

Details… Installation Information

It is assumed that you will install R, RStudio and the Tidyverse on your
laptop. [Interactive instructions are
available](https://tutorials.shinyapps.io/00-setup/). Alternatives to
installing locally include using the [Duke RStudio Cloud
instance](https://vm-manage.oit.duke.edu/containers/rstudio), or the
[RStudio.Cloud](https://rstudio.cloud/) instance. Both are free.
(Uploading data to the cloud instances may be slightly different.) The
Duke instance requires that your NetID is up-to-date. In all cases you
are expected to have already installed the Tidyverse packages.

The interactive instructions, above, cover how to install: R on your
computer, the RStudio IDE, and the Tidyverse R package(s). Additional
background information can be found in [my video
library](https://warpwire.duke.edu/w/n_YDAA/); see \[background\]
sections 1.i through 1.v

Part 1 materials

In the flipped classroom model you will watch [video
materials](https://warpwire.duke.edu/w/n_YDAA/) (Part 1a and Part 1b) to
learn how to wrangle data for analysis, gain a brief introduction to
visualization, practice Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA), and generate
reports.

Required viewing 0.1 Part 1a \[Basic\] [Introduction to R:
quickstart](https://warpwire.duke.edu/w/pfYDAA/)

0.1.1 Part 1b \[Basic\] [Data wrangling with
dplyr](https://warpwire.duke.edu/w/6_YDAA/)

See Also: [Background and in-depth
videos](https://github.com/libjohn/rfun_flipped#part-1-additional-background-and-explanatory-videos)
(optional). This outline of videos allows you to get more in depth
information on targeted areas when using RStudio and the Tidyverse.
